These are solar power towers in southern Spain.
We are located in one of the sunniest parts of Europe
and these two towers were the first of their kind.
Almost 2,000 heliostats, moving mirrors,
constantly reflecting the sun's rays on these towers, converting water into steam,
driving a turbine that generates electricity.
And if you look at the internet,
you will see quite a few documents mapping this area,
people who were incredibly impressed with this technology
and sell it what the future of electricity production.
And these towers are impressive.
Not only visually,
but the technology behind this project is very smart and very simple:
It's the same as to bother your teacher's reflections of the sun from your cell phone,
only on a much larger scale.
But it has a hook.
When this project was built, Spain was booming
and heavily subsidized solar energy.
Investors liked it and invested in piles of money themselves,
companies and researchers were glad to be able to build different buildings like these
and suddenly, the Spanish government had far more solar energy than she had planned ...
having to subsidize all these projects.
Then came the economic crisis.
The Spanish government stopped the subsidy program.
Not only for future projects,
not only for power stations already under construction,
but even for all power plants that have already been built
on the assumption that the cessation of the subsidy program will offset its budget.
The solar industry shook it: Spain changed the original deal
and all solar societies could only pray that the government would not change these agreements again in the future.
Or she has declared bankruptcy, one of them.
This project could still be viable, perhaps,
along with further research and development
and that's exactly what he is trying to do now.
But beware, the price of ordinary,
of ordinary solar panels is still falling.
Not mirrors such as these,
just ordinary solar panels, the same as those you can attach to your house
or as those used on large solar farms,
directly transforming sunlight into electricity.
Whether the price of these panels will drop
it depends on which team of scientists you will trust,
but they are now cheaper than the construction of the giant towers,
filled with high pressure water or molten salt to heat them
and struggling with a thousand movable parts that must all copy the position of the sun,
perfectly,
and which can exceptionally also bite birds in flight.
Do not get me wrong. Paper is a great technology.
Combines renewable resources with storage:
if you heat, for example, molten salt,
you can save this energy for several hours and use it during the night.
And other power plants like these are under construction:
one, almost finished, in the Atakama desert, South America.
But right now,
this technology is expensive.
Maybe she did not have to be,
if history were going in a different direction,
if the development was dealt with by these towers instead of traditional solar panels: But so far,
that the future will not be so bright.